[Music]
in the vibrant tapestry of Contemporary
Art few figures Loom as large or as
colorfully as tekashi murakami a
modern-day War hole with a distinctly
Japanese twist murakami has exploded
into the global art scene with his
signature super flat aesthetic a fusion
of high and low culture that challenges
and even invites criticism of
traditional Notions of Art and
taste in this video we will be delving
into the fascinating life and prolific
career of tekashi murakami tracing his
artistic Evolution from his early days
as a nihonga painter a traditional
Japanese style to his current status as
an international art icon whose
influence spans Fine Art fashion and pop
culture we will explore the key themes
and motifs that permeate in his work
from his iconic smiling flowers and
manga style characters to his more
recent foray into social commentary and
political satire these seemingly playful
figures often Bell deeper meanings
referencing everything from post-war
trauma and consumerism to the ataku
subculture and the anxieties of Modern
Life in
Japan through a hopefully thorough
enough analysis of his most celebrated
works we will uncover the complex layers
of meaning that lie beneath the
seemingly playful surface of murakami's
art if you're new to this channel a warm
welcome to you and if you're not done so
already please be sure to subscribe and
click the notification Bell to see more
videos from me on the weird and
wonderful side of the art world and
whilst on the topic of revealing hidden
secrets in things even though we may be
very wary of keeping our private
information safe and secure it turns out
given the current age we live in we''re
been spied on all the time and in ways
completely unknown to us you see whether
you realize it or not hundreds of data
Brokers could be making tons of money
off of your private information right
now which is why I want to share a great
deal with you courtesy of today's video
sponsor incog incog is a personal
information removal service that offers
a vital opportunity for you to take back
control of your data privacy reduce spam
and prevent potential scam attacks and
even identity theft the thing is there
are actually laws in place to remove
ourselves from these lists corporations
around the world are constantly making
money off of but the problem is the vast
majority of us have no idea where to
start but that's exactly what incog does
best as someone who's had some very
tedious and mind-numbing experiences
with Spam emails myself I found that
incog has been a wonderful solution to
this do you ever get those moments when
you're looking through all of those
countless unwanted marketing emails and
get that horrible realization that you
have to opt out of all of these one by
one well that's the thing of of a past
thanks to incog how it works is you sign
up to their website grant them necessary
permissions and they immediately and
automatically get to work on all of the
data removal requests needed to secure
your privacy the best part is it covers
all broker types including risk
mitigation recruitment people search
sites financial information marketing
data Brokers and any kind of information
fishing Corporation you can think of
incog has the tools to remove you from
all of these so if you want to take back
control as well and start off with a
discount there's a link in my
description below that will take you
straight to their website and give you a
whopping 60% off their annual plan which
I highly recommend as it will allow
incog to constantly monitor your data
list and keep you off them as regularly
as possible making your life so much
easier and completely
stressfree a huge thank you to enog for
sponsoring today's video and without
further Ado welcome to another video my
friends
this is a story and artwork of tekashi
[Music]
murakami so before we take a look at
some examples of murakami's art as usual
I feel it's useful to explore a brief
overview of his life and artistic
Journey just to give us a bit of
context tekashi marami was born on Fe
February 1st 1962 in Tokyo within
postwar
Japan his father was a taxi driver and
his mother although a humble Homemaker
happened to have studied needle point
and design textiles which introduced
early exposure to creativity for
murakami as a child whenever he would
visit an exhibition his parents would
often prompt him to write reviews of the
art he'd come across and if he refused
he was forced to go to bed without
dinner on top of this murakami grew up
hearing his mother tell him that had the
US dropped another nuclear bomb he would
not have been born although his
childhood environment was seemingly
strict with a dark shadow of War looming
over with intrusive influence from the
United States it nevertheless allowed
Mur armi to think very critically which
would serve as a Bedrock for his unique
artistic Vision later down the
line it's also been documented that
during murakami's childhood Japan
created a national identity that revived
traditional Japanese culture and put
tremendous pressure on its Workforce to
produce in order to compete with the
West both economically as well as
culturally this hybrid emphasis on
traditional Japanese culture and Western
influences was reflected in mami's
childhood activities which ranged from
attending Buddhist rituals and taking
Japanese calligraphy courses to visiting
Museum exhibitions of Masters such as
Renoir and Goya simply put murakami and
a great portion of Japan was seemingly
living a double life one that was
traditional yet also trying to keep up
with the surrounding world as a result
murakami developed an early appreciation
for both traditional Japanese art and
the burgeoning world of anime and manga
this Duality would become a defining
characteristic of his work as he sought
to bring brid the gap between high and
low culture challenging traditional
Notions of what constituted Fine
Art After completing his studies in the
hunga a traditional Japanese painting
style at the Tokyo National University
of Fine Arts and Music murakami began
experimenting with different Artistic
Styles and
mediums in the early '90s he developed
the concept of super flat a term he
coined to describe his unique aesthetic
and Blended elements of traditional
Japanese art with contemporary pop
culture superlat challenged the
hierarchical distinctions between high
and low Arts embracing a visual language
of anime manga and
consumerism murakami's artistic
repertoire quickly gained recognition
for its vibrant colors cartoon-like
characters and recurring motifs like
smiling flowers mushrooms and
skulls his Works often Incorporated
tradition Japanese imagery such as
cherry blossoms and waves creating a
visual vocabulary that was both familiar
and
submersive mikami's art was becoming a
playful yet profound commentary on
contemporary Japanese Society exploring
themes of consumerism globalization and
the anxieties of Modern Life The Smiling
flower murakami's most iconic Motif
became a global phenomenon his cheerful
facade concealed a deeper Comm on the
darker aspects of consumer culture and
the fleeting nature of happiness in a
hyper capitalist Society the flower
Motif appeared in a variety of mediums
from paintings and sculptures to limited
edition Handbags and accessories his
popularity transcended the art World in
this sense cementing mirami status as a
cultural icon murakami's collaborations
with high-profile fashion brands like
Louis Vuitton further solidified as
position as a bridge between art and
commerce his limited edition Handbags
and accessories adorned with his
signature motifs became coveted
collector's items blurring alliance
between art and luxury goods these
collaborations not only brought his art
to a wider audience but also challenged
traditional Notions of artistic
exclusivity in addition to his artistic
Pursuits mirami established himself as a
Savvy entrepreneur and and cultural
influencer he founded Kai Kai Kiki
Company Limited an art production and
artist management company that nurtures
young talents and promotes Japanese
Contemporary Art on a global scale
murakami's entrepreneurial Spirit
extended beyond the art world as he
ventured into various creative Fields
including film animation and music but
what exactly are some good examples that
reveal Mirra kami's undeniable impact on
the art world and pop culture how
exactly is mami's ability to navigate
the worlds of high art and mass culture
with equal a plum made him a unique
figure in the Contemporary Art scene
well let's waste no more time and take a
look at one of the earliest examples of
his work that thrust him into the
[Music]
spotlight Tashi m Army 727 made in 1996
is a seminal work that encapsulates the
artist's signature superf flat style
while addressing complex themes of
cultural identity globalization and the
legacy of World War II in
Japan the tryptic painting consisting of
three panels displayed next to each
other featuring mami's iconic character
Mr dob showcases a dynamic Fusion of
Japanese and Western artistic Traditions
challenging conventional Notions of high
and low art earlier I briefly mentioned
the term super flat coined by mirami
that refers to the flattening of
perspectives and hierarchies in Japanese
visual culture well in 727 this
aesthetic manifests in the Bold outlines
vibrant colors and two-dimensional
rendering of Mr do against a backdrop
that's reminiscent of traditional
Japanese wave
paintings Mr do with its cartoon tunish
appearance and enigmatic expression
serves as murakami's alter ego and a
symbol of a super flat
movement in 727 Mr do is depicted
surfing on a stylized wave evoking
imagery from traditional Japanese wood
block prints while also referencing pop
culture icons like Mickey
Mouse this ju AOS of historical and
contemporary elements highlights the
complex interplay between tradition and
modernity in Japanese art the painting's
title
727 also alludes to the Boeing airplanes
that frequently flew over Mir Army's
childhood home symbolizing the American
Military presence in postwar Japan this
reference along with the inclusion of Mr
do a character who embodies both
Japanese and Western influences speaks
to the artists exploration of cultural
identity in the face of
globalization the work raises questions
about the homogenization of culture and
the preservation of unique artistic
traditions in an increasingly
interconnected World while not
explicitly depicting War imagery 727
subtly references the legacy of World
War II in Japan the Boeing 727 a symbol
of American military power serves as a
reminder of a country's complex
relationship with the United
States the painting's vibrant colors and
playful imagery may seem to cont with
this historical context but this Jer
position could be interpreted as a
commentary on the resilience of Japanese
culture in the face of
adversity 727 has been widely exhibited
and critically acclaimed solidifying
mirari's position as a leading figure in
Contemporary Art the work has been
praised for its innovative approach to
cultural commentary his technical
Mastery and his ability to bridge the
gap between high and low Arts tekashi
mirami 727 is a multi-layered work that
invites viewers to contemplate on the
complexities of cultural identity and
historical memory by merging traditional
Japanese Aesthetics with contemporary
pop culture references mirami challenges
conventual Notions of artistic
expression and encourages critical
engagements with the forces that shape
our world the paintings enduring
popularity and critical Acclaim attest
to its significant if ific an as a
landmark work in Contemporary
[Music]
Art next up we have Supernova completed
in
1999 this Monumental seven panel
painting presents a vibrant seemingly
playful scene of mushroom likee figures
each bursting with psychedelic colors
and distorted forms at first glance the
work appears to be a Whimsical fantasy
reminiscent of childhood cartoons or
video
games however a closer inspection
reveals a more complex and unsettling
undercurrent and let's be honest it
wouldn't be a blind dweller video
without at least some unsettling hidden
messages in the art that I show would it
the mushrooms with their mutant eyeballs
fang-like spikes and exaggerated
features hint at darker themes of
mutation radiation and the potential for
Destruction the title itself Supernova
alludes to both a cosmic explosion and a
song by the British bands Oasis
suggesting a collision of natural and
cultural
forces the work can be interpreted as a
commentary on the postor War II
anxieties and traumas experienced in
Japan the mushroom figures can be seen
as symbolic of the atomic bombs that
dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki with
their mutated forms reflecting the
lingering effects of radiation on both
the environments and the
people the Vivid colors and flattened
perspective of the super flat style well
visually appealing also evoke a sense of
artificiality and
superficiality perhaps commenting on
consumerism and the cultural
homogeneization that emerged in postwar
Japan am 's work is deeply rooted in
Japanese artistic Traditions
particularly even hunger style of
painting that we mentioned earlier and
also Japanese style wood block prints
the flatten perspective bold outlines
and decorative patterns in Supernova are
reminiscent of these traditional forms
however murakami subverts these
Traditions by incorporating elements of
Pop Culture such as Manga and Anime
creating a unique visual language that
resonates with temporary
audiences the work also engages with the
concept of kawaii or cuteness a
prominent aspect of Japanese pop
culture the mushroom figures while
grotesque and unsettling also possess a
certain charm and appeal highlighting
the ambiguous nature of cuteness and its
potential to both attract and
repel quite simply Supernova is a
multi-layered work that can be
interpreted in various ways it can could
be seen as a reflection on post-war
anxieties and cultural shifts in Japan a
commentary on the ambivalent nature of
cuteness or on the other hand a
celebration of a fusion of high and low
art regardless of the interpretation the
work is a testament to murakami's
Artistic vision and his ability to
create visually arresting and
thought-provoking works that challenge
conventional Notions of art and culture
[Music]
now that we've mentioned the super flat
style a few times now I think it's worth
looking into how far murakami took this
movement Beyond The Gallery walls more
specifically with his I love super flat
works that became a phenomenal hit
within the fashion
industry upon completing his I love
super flat pieces in the early 000s
consisting of very simple but
eye-catching Monograms in 97 different
colors with his own signature jellyfish
eyes repeated on black or white
backgrounds it was around this time that
arguably one of murakami's most famous
and successful collaborations was about
to begin which would use this very same
aesthetic while I love Superflat is
purely a murakami creation his
collaborative spirit is most evident in
his extensive partnership with with Mark
Jacobs particularly during Jacob's
tenure as creative director at Louis
Vuitton this collaboration spanned over
a decade from 2003 to
2015 and yielded numerous iconic
collections that merged the worlds of
high fashion and Contemporary
Art the monogram multicore collection of
2003 was the groundbreaking launch of
their partnership where murac armi
reimagined for classic Lou vitar
monogram with a vibrant palette of 33
colors The Collection featuring iconic
bags like the Elma and Speedy was an
instant hit capturing the Zeitgeist of
the early 2000s with its playful Popa
aesthetic in addition the partnership
gave rise to the Cherry Blossom
collection that very same year where
murakami adorns the monogram canvas with
cheerful cherry blossoms adding a touch
of kawaii charm with the Lux
brand over the years they also released
the panda mckahan
monogramouflage and Cosmic Blossom
collections each showcasing mirami
signature motifs and super flat
aesthetic on a variety of Louis Vuitton
products the collaboration made luxury
more accessible and appealing to a
younger audience murakami's bold playful
designs resonated with a generation
raised on anime and manga challenging a
traditional perception of high fashion
as exclusive and
serious but most significantly it
exemplified the blurring of lines
between art and commerce murakami's
artistic Vision was now no longer
confined to galleries but extended to
everyday objects making his art more
accessible and relevant to the masses in
a way sort of proving that the most
successful or at least the most
profitable kind of art form is marketing
the way of Bill in your art so to speak
to as many people as possible through as
many different everyday objects as
possible the Mami designed Louis Vuitton
pieces were widely popular contributing
significantly to the Brand's growth and
solidifying his position as a trend
Setter in the luxury
Market even after the collaboration
ended in 2015 its influence is still
felt today the murakami designed Louis
Vuitton bags remain highly sought after
collect items and the partnership serves
as a benchmark for successful
collaborations between the art and
fashion worlds it feels very odd to be
talking about art in this sense as I
generally find more Fascination in
creativity that touches upon complex
emotions and the therapeutic qualities
that kind of art can have on people but
at the same time I can't help but admire
how revolutionary this collaboration
truly was it was a testament to the
power of creating ative Synergy
resulting in collections that were
visually playful commercially successful
and culturally impactful there work
together push the boundaries of what was
possible in both art and fashion leaving
a lasting Legacy that can still be seen
today in fact in recent years there have
even been hints of a possible Revival of
a collaboration with Mark Jacobs teasing
images of mirami inspired designs on
social media however nothing has been
officially confirmed as of
[Music]
yet now we're going to fast forward
slightly through murac Army's art career
by exploring his 2012 piece titled blue
flowers and
skulls this painting is dominated by
vibrant blue background upon which
murakami's iconic smiling flowers and
cartoonish skulls are just opposed the
flowers rended in bright colors with
exaggerated features exude a sense of
childlike joy and
innocence they are reminiscent of
traditional Japanese motifs and patterns
while also incorporating elements of
Manga and Anime
Aesthetics in contrast the skulls
despite their cartoonish appearance aoke
a sense of unease and
mortality the empty eye sockets and
grimacing mouths are a St reminder of
death's
inevitability the contrast between these
two opposing symbols creates a visual
tension that is both playful and
unsettling the cenal dichotomy in blue
flowers and skulls is the ju to position
of life and death the flowers symbolize
Vitality growth and beauty while the
skulls rather unsurprisingly represent
Decay mortality and the transience of
existence this dark contrast forces
viewers to contemplate the cyclical
nature of life and the inevitability of
death the painting exemplifies murakami
superf flat aesthetic which again blurs
a lines between High art and low culture
drawing inspiration from both
traditional Japanese arts and
Contemporary
Arts the flatness of a picture plane the
use of bold colors and a cartoonish
imagery are all characteristics of this
movement knowing what we've already seen
of mami's art the flowers may represent
the superficial happiness and the
material abundance of consumer Society
while the skulls elude to the trauma and
Collective anxiety stemming from Japan's
defeat in World War
II for murakami the flowers and skulls
are deeply personal symbols they
represent his own struggles with
depression and anxiety as well as his
desire to reconcile traditional Japanese
Aesthetics with the demands of a
contemporary art world but once again
blue flowers and skulls is open to
multiple interpretations and its meaning
may vary depending on the viewer's
cultural background and personal
experiences some may see it as a
celebration of life's fleeting beauty
while Others May interpret it as a
meditation on death death and the
impermanence of all things not to say it
depends on whether you're a glass half
empty or glass half full kind of person
but in a way it kind of
does in the context of murakami's larger
body of work blue flowers and skulls
represents a continuation of his
exploration of the super flat aesthetic
and his engagement with themes of Life
Death Joy and
Terror I personally find it to be an
artwork that's very visually striking
and even intellectually stimulating it
can truly challenge viewers to
contemplate the complexities of
existence and of course a contradictions
inherent in contemporary
[Music]
culture finally I'd like us to take a
look at another 2012 piece which is
arguably tekashi murakami's most
powerful titled the 500 R hats a
Monumental piece of artwork both
literally and
figuratively the 100 m long painting one
of the largest in history is a complex
and layered exploration of Japanese
spirituality cultural history and
contemporary
anxieties the work was created in the
aftermath of a 2011 tah Hoku earthquake
and tsunami
a disaster that deeply affected
Mami the ahats a Buddhist term to
describe enlightened Disciples of the
Buddha who are said to protect people
from suffering offer a source of Hope
and resilience in the face of
tragedy the painting draws on the edop
period tradition of AR hat paintings
which depicted these figures with
individual personalities and
Supernatural
Powers however mirami reinterprets this
to addition through his own super flat
aesthetic giving them the trademark
bright colors and cartoon-like
features the 500 R hat is divided into
four sections each named after one of
the four symbols of Chinese
constellations the blue dragon in the
East the white tiger in the west the
vilon bird in the South and the black
tortoise in the north each section has a
distinct color palette and atmosphere
reflecting the different energies
associated with these Celestial beings
the painting is teeming with ar hat
figures each with unique expressions and
postures some Serene others Whimsical or
grotesque they are surrounded by
swirling clouds crashing waves and
Fantastical creatures creating a sense
of dynamism and
Chaos the style is a vibrant Fusion of
traditional Japanese painting techniques
and contemporary pop culture influences
the use of flat planes of color bold
outlines and repetitive motifs are again
reminiscent of anime a
manga yet the meticulous detail and the
intricate patterns also Echo the
decorative style of Edo period art this
blending of styles creates a visually
striking and culturally resonant
work there are some truly profound
interpretations one could walk away with
from seeing this work on one hand it's a
meditation on The Human Condition
exploring themes of suffering resilience
and the search for spiritual meaning in
the chaotic world the AR hats with their
diverse personalities and experiences
represent the spectrum of human emotions
and struggles on another level the
painting is a commentary on the
Contemporary Japanese society as we
already know mirami has often been
critical of Japan's consumerist culture
and his lack of spiritual grounding
the 500 R hats can be seen as a call for
a return to Traditional Values and a
reconnection with the natural world the
painting's vibrant colors and
Fantastical imagery can also be read as
a critique on artificiality and the
superficiality of Modern
Life the 500 R hats has been exhibited
around the world generating both a claim
and
controversy some critics have praised
its ambition its technical skill and its
cultural relevance others though have
dismissed it as a cynical commercial
Ploy regardless of its reception though
the work remains a powerful and
thought-provoking piece that challenges
viewers to contemplate their own
relationship with spirituality culture
and the natural
world all in all tekashi murakami's 500
AR hats is a complex and ambitious work
it is a visually stunning spectacle a
cultural commentary and a spiritual
meditation all rolled into one it's a
testament to murakami's Artistic vision
and his ability to bridge the gap
between the traditional and the
Contemporary whether you see it as a
masterpiece or a monstrosity the 500 R
hat is a work that demands attention and
invites deeper reflection and in all
honesty that is probably one of the main
things I appreciate about artists like
mirami which is the ability to
beautifully blend both the Old and the
new rather than seeking to render the
other as unimportant or less
impactful his ability to blend high and
low culture to bridge eastern and
western Aesthetics and to challenge
traditional Notions of art while
maintaining a playful and captivating
style is truly a testament to his
genius from his iconic smiling flowers
to his collaborations with fashion
houses and musicians murakami's
influence extends far beyond the walls
of the galleries
he has become a global phenomenon a
cultural icon whose work Sparks Joy
provokes thoughts and continues to
evolve through his art we're given an
opportunity to witness the Journey of a
Visionary who has not only redefined
what art can be but also inspired
countless others to embrace their own
creativity tekashi murakami's Legacy is
one of boundless imagination cultural
exchange and the enduring power of art
to connect us all
thank you for watching this video I hope
you found it interesting and I hope it's
given you a taster of what to expect if
you're planning to explore more work by
tekashi
murakami before I go it's that time
again for artist Corner my end of video
feature where I get to share some
artwork sent to me by one of my lovely
viewers and today's featured artist is
20-year-old Jess Johnson from Tampa
Florida USA
Jess is an incredibly talented mixed
medeor artist who primarily works with
charcoal she tells me she would describe
her style as semi-realism mixed with
some surrealist elements her art
consists of themes such as self identity
emotions and talking about her past and
personal
experiences I was flawed when I first
looked at her work her attention to
detail is staggering and she has a
wonderfully expressive imagination when
it comes to her realist elements and I
think it's worth noting that certainly
in my experience charcoal is a very
tricky and fiddly medium to master but
her skills and control are very evident
when looking through her
portfolio from charcoal portraits that
look as realistic as black and white
photographs to her otherworldly
surrealism that tap into the most
complex of human emotions she really has
got something special to offer I of
course urge all of you to take a look
for yourself by heading to her Instagram
via the username you see on screen or
click the link below to take you
straight to her profile if you're an
artist as well and fancy showing off
your hard work to me and maybe even get
featured in a future video I'd love to
meet you please send me an email to
Blind dweller gmail.com with the
inclusion of a description about
yourself and of course some examples of
your work
attached finally a huge thank you to all
of my patrons and channel members here's
a special shout out to all of my top
tier
dwellers Leslie Simon Lori Gallardo Port
Pera mil Z gra Vlad ziv Tyler Butler
Eric Lam marker Dave MC
molale Chi Devin I think that's how you
pronounce your name if not please let me
know in the comments H's Place eat Mo
Leaf flowers
Calvin Kai V new on gone 24 aiser
Charlie sanesi Ken B and Carol
H that's all for me today guys keep
being creative and bye for now